#### Credit
This repository will consist of two files: the sankey.R file and an example dataset. The purpose of the project was to turn the already interactive sankey diagram provided in @ramnathv's [`rCharts`](https://github.com/ramnathv/rCharts) pacakge into something slightly more informative. The work accomplished here is based heavily on the work that was already done by a lot of people before me. @timelyportfolio's [work on the sankey diagram](https://github.com/timelyportfolio/rCharts_d3_sankey) specifically, along with some answers on StackOverflow, provided a LOT of assistance. [Mike Bostock](http://bost.ocks.org/mike/sankey/) was given some credit within the source code I used, so I'll give him credit here as well. 

#### Overview
Interactive charts are the new, cool way to visualize data. And for good reason. The issue, at least for me, is that those interactive charts make it difficult to turn visualizations into gifs, and I use gifs a lot to try to identify patterns in the data. As a result, I started this project and in the end I condensed everything down to a single HTML file that uses jquery and javascript to animate the graph over time. The animation provides an extra element of interactivity as the nodes/links can still be moved and the tooltips still generate. If you want to reduce the amount of interactivity and you don't want the animation, but want to change the color of the nodes and paths, or customize the tooltips, you can just set `gif = FALSE`. Or, if you just want the regular sankey diagram with nothing special, set `after_script = FALSE` as well. The code to edit the node/link colors is in the `.generate_after_js` function and should be relatively self explanatory. It currently requires two different colors - one for points of interest and one for everything else - but this can be tweaked to take a vector of colors as well. The code to change the tooltips can be found in the `.generate_main_js` function via the `node_tooltip` and `link_tooltip` parameters. These parameters expect javascript-readable strings.

Also, as of 11/20/2015, the Sankey Diagram now offers backward-flow capabilities. This is important for instances where, say, money flows into an account from a given entity and then flows back out of that account to the same entity. In prior versions of Sankey, this would cause the graph to not appear. Now, instead, it will reverse the tooltip and change the color of the link to signify that the flow is in the opposite direction. The code will automatically identify which rows need to be reversed as long as you keep `allow_circular_paths = TRUE`. However, you can prespecify which rows to reverse, in which case the algorithm will use those values instead of its self generated values. Lastly, you can directly call `.add_reverse_flags` to apply the preliminary reverse flags and then go through and manually modify any that might have been missed. Once the flags are in place, simply call `generate_html` to correct the data and generate the output. This is useful because it has been realized that some backwards flows cannot be identified until after the graph is drawn. At this point, the analyst will need to go in and manually reverse these paths. Work will be done in the future to try to make this automatic as well.    
As for now, it's undecided as to whether or not this feature will remain as it might convolute the visualization.

When I first started writing the code for this, I didn't really anticipate putting it on Github because I didn't think it'd transition well to other use cases. But now that it's done, I figure it can at least inspire some work on other interactive visualizations. If you've got any questions or comments, feel free to post them in the Issues section. 

#### Example
``` {r}
dat <- read.csv("example.csv", stringsAsFactors = FALSE)
generate_html(dat, targets = c("Alex", "Tom", "Bob"), graph_title = "My Cool Animated Sankey Diagram!")
```

A live demo can also be viewed by going [here](http://45.55.233.87/shiny/sankey/).
